---
title:  PUBG Data
date: 2018-12-18
author_profile: true
excerpt:  Here's my project post.
toc:  true
published:  true
---

## Introduction

  Hello! My name is Spencer Szabaday and I will be showing you a splendid server of statistics. These statistics had to do with the ranked player statistics of those who play "Player Unknown's Battlegrounds." Most people simply refer to the game as PUBG (Pub-Gee), so that is how it shall be labeled as from this point on. 
 
## Research Question
 
 My research question is simple: **Is there a correlation between how many matches one has played and how often they are within the "Top 10"?** The "Top 10" is defined as one of the last ten surviving players after a 100 player deathmatch, which can be extrapolated as meaning you were one of the ten best players in that match.
 
## Dataset

  The source from my dataset is from [JustinMoore on Kaggle.](https://www.kaggle.com/lazyjustin/pubgplayerstats) This dataset will be useful in finding an answern to my research question simply because it affords me absurdly huge sample from which i can randomly select my sample. 
  The there are 6 data fields that are particularly important, and they have two parts: either 'Solo', 'Duo', or 'Squad', and then either 'Rounds' or 'Top 10s'. The 'Solo', 'Duo', and 'Squad' section refer to what size group you have on your team (as well as what size groups of other players you'll be fighting) in the battle royale match, either just you, a partner, or three parters; the other section of either 'Rounds' or 'Top 10s' referres to either the data consisting of how many matches that player has participated in, or how many times that player has been one of the last ten players alive. When all mixed and matched together, this allows us to see trends based upon time played and 'wins' between the different game modes.
  For this presentation, I will be utilizing Tableau, a visual data software that allows me to create charts and visualize data like never before. Other programs such as Excel simply do not offer the level of customization that I crave.

## Tableau Methodology

  When it came to the workflow of my project, it was not so much trouble: importing, modifying, and applying my dataset was a breeze. I added a player filter to my charts in order to allows the viewer to add or drop specific players and their data individually. One annoying limitation of the dataset was that the only real way to help identify the player data was with their screennames, which cause plenty of unnecessary clutter and severely limited my possible chart styles.
  
### Visualization Methodology
  
  In order to allow viewers to quickly gather and formulate my point for themelves, I grayed out the more sdtandard line graphs, while making the more interesting and anomolous data pop with the color blue. The visualizations tell a cohesive story by first introducingt the 'normal' expected chart flows, but at the end, they are introduced to the differences and then it is highlighted further through a shared dashboard, where the anomoly is larger and more eye catching. 
### Tableau

  [Here is access to the Dashboard itself.](/assets/TimeSkillCorrelation[1])
  
## Conclusion

  In conclusion, **this result answers my research question in the negative that while in Solo or Squad team instances there is a correlation between time played and success, in the Duo setup there is much more variation between player groups.** Through this data, I can infer that the reason it would allow for much more variation is the dynamics of Duo queue; if you lose your partner, then you are most likely always fighting a 2 vs 1 battle. In Solo, it is everyone for themselves and when you die you lose; in Squads, the better, more cooordinated teams of four can either outmaneuver the better teams or outgun the worse ones.
  
## Appendix

  [JustinMoore's Kaggle Dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/lazyjustin/pubgplayerstats)
  
   
